Hello everyone.
So I hope that you all have went through the introduction of the application part and working off the
project part pretty well and have much to gain.
Like a rough idea about what this application is about, how we are going to add functionality for add
button, delete button in order to create a post order calculation, how to calculate the height of
the tree and how to put up things inside the frame.
So we have discussed all of them inside the working application and now we are going to actually implement
all of them inside this coding part.
So in this coding execution part, firstly we are going to create a new project inside our favorite
ID.
We lost audio code.
So this is the welcome page of the Visual Studio code ID.
On this welcome page, we have to click on this Explorer button on the sidebar option will appear to
create a Java project in the bottom.
So open folder and clone repository are the two features which we are going not going to use.
We have to just simply click this, create the project button, then it will ask to what type of build
tool we want to include in this project.
So there are several tools in Java, such as Maven, Spring Boot, Cox and Micro Profile, which are
going to provide all ready made templates for writing your code and you just have to put data inside
that template and things will come up inside the frame automatically.
But inside this project we are going to work directly with the source code without any tools.
So we will selecting this no build tools option.
So I'm hitting this noble third option.
The file chooser of your system will open, or you can choose a location for your project folder basically
from this file chooser so you can choose any location head.
I am choosing desktop as the project location.
So on hitting desktop and then clicking on this select the project location input text field will appear
on the welcome of the ID.
So here we have the input, a Java project name inside this input field.
So your name should be like in a manner that it decides that what is actually this project is doing.
So I am going to name this project in a manner that it actually defines my project that what actually
we are going to do inside this project.
So I am going to name this based visualization.
All.
And yes, this is going to be the name for the folder of my Java project.
So BSD visualization tool and on hitting enter, we will end up inside that folder which we have just
created in our order to write a Java code.
So this is the in entering page of this folder based visualization code.
It is already containing a few folders, which is basically like inbuilt folders of this based visualization
tool project.
So this dot, this dot vs code is going to be the folders of the compiler, which the compiler provides
to every Java project which we create here.
So we can simply ignore these two folders dot this dot of school as they are of no use in our project.
So simply ignoring these 2.. vs code folders and coming to our main folder which is the SLC folder.
So inside this SLC folder we are going to create our main application.
What is the main file of our application should be consistent inside this RC folder only.
So this is RC folder is the body of our application and all the parts of that body are going to be stored
inside this SLC folder only.
So keep in mind that all important files and folder to be stored in us RC folder not only in this project
but any of the other projects you are making.
You should store all the important files inside this RC folder only in order to make your application
run executable and free of any kind of exception.
So yes, this was all about the structure of this folder.
Now, in order to start the coding path, we have to create a class which is going to like handle all
the testing and running of this application.
So let us choose the name for that file.
So we are going to like do a visualization of binary search tree.
So I am going to name this class also in that way.
So BSD visualization.
Dot Java.
So dot java should be like must be included after every file inside the society folder we are creating
as are only after this extension dot java.
That application should be like perform in a Java application manner.
So this extension is like most important thing in order to create a Java project.
So yes, keep this in mind that adding Java extension is a must while creating a Java class.
So I'm hitting enter like we landed inside this file.
Now inside this we are going to create a public class and this class is basically going to handle all
that testing and running and contain all the objects, methods, functionalities of our project.
So BSD visualization is going to be the name for this class, as we have named the folder as BSD visualization
dot java.
So the name for this class should also be BSD visualization.
And we will extend this class to day frame as we are going to put up things inside the frame only.
Okay.
So on hitting enter and import is made automatically.
Java string j frame.
This frame is a component from this Java String library, so an extended version of Java JWT frame that
adds a support for Zfc or string component architecture.
So basically it is going to give us a content pane inside which we are going to store our application.
So after creating the class and extending it to AGC, now we are going to like initialize a few of the
variables which are going to be needed inside this project.
So the variables are private node root.
The second one is going to be J panel for containing all of the panels.
So a panel for top panel.
We are going to write these names as Camel Case three panel, a panel for the three, a panel for the
like, height and buttons and info.
Panel in for panel.
Okay.
And the next one is going to be a panel for left and right.
So let us like visualize what actually we are talking about.
So this is the three panel.
This is the top panel and this is the bottom panel, or we can say it as our info panel.
Now, the next concern is to like the side panel for this left and this right.
So this left is going to be the height one and this left is going to be add delete button text field.
So let us declare that also.
So we are going to copy the same code and paste it.
In order to.
Just changing it to top left.
And stop, right?
Top ten.
So, yes, these are the two left and right panels now.
In the next part, we are going to import a button for a button and a button.
Delete private j button for b t add and retain delete.
Yes.
Okay.
So the next one is going to be a text field.
So private text field.
And it is going to be a.
So we are naming this text field as so whenever we are going to access this text field, we will be
simply accessing it with you.
The next one is going to be the x and y axis.
Like how these x, x and y axis distance of this application is setting it to 300 in the beginning and
75.
For the Y axis.
So we are going to draw lines and these lines are going to contain a specific distance from the x axis
and the Y axis.
So we have written this head in the form of a private X and Y.
The next one is going to be graphics.
So here you can see that we are storing the nodes in the form of a colored rectangles.
So two axis that we are going to use graphics, private graphics, two dx.
And.
We are going to call it Test G two.
So yeah, g two.
The next one is going to be a rectangle, private rectangle, and we are going to name this rectangle
as size as it is going to be the size of the node.
Next one is going to be available for preorder, post order and height.
So for labels again private label, we have already used this label for top left, right and all of
them.
So similarly label order.
Label order and.
Okay.
So these are all the labels which are going to be needed in order pre and post order and the height
and also for the answer of the pre order, post order and height.
This is the label thing which is written in the board and the answer is this for all three of them.
And what is the answer for the height?
Now the next part is to like decide the structure for the node.
So node structure.
We are going to cover.
So how the node structure is going to be.
Let us first create a node.
Class.
Okay.
So this is the node class.
Inside this class, we are going to invoke some objects such as static and text like it is going to
be with ten height for this node.
So.
Height and the exterior.
So underscore width, which is going to be 40 in the beginning and similarly static.
Static in text height.
For the nodes.
And it is going to be again for.
So the height and width is going to be same for the north.
Now the next one is going to be available for the data inside the node.
So the level data, a node left a node right as we are having left and right, subtree, so separate,
not for the right and left one.
In order to make this like accessing this node in the later part of the program, when a point is going
to be like declared, we will come to this point, like what actually this point is doing.
So point B and so this was all about this node class.
Now what this node constructor is doing, so node and info is going to be the arguments of this node
constructor.
Now inside this, we will be accessing that data.
So new label.
New label and info.
I'm destroying.
Swing constant center.
So the like the data inside the node should be filled inside, like inside the node at the center.
Basically this is the layout for the elements inside the node and a few more.
Okay.
So this was all about the note structure, the note which we are creating for storing the elements and
again coming to the point structure.
So what this point is actually so how the notes are being connected with the help of a straight line,
you can see a thick black straight line which are connecting the notes.
So but there is a distance between these two notes and that distance is covered with the help of this
line.
So how do we draw a line?
To draw a line, we need two points.
Basically, a line is our joining structure for two points.
The distance between two points is covered with the help of a line.
So these points are basically the coordinates of the node, the first one and the second one, which
the line is like joining.
So yes, this was the structure for the point.
The similar way we are having a structure for the node.
We were like making a class for the node.
Similarly, we are making a class for the point, initially setting all of them to zero in order to
access them.
We are using this key word and in order to use that point again in the code, we are converting that
coordinates in the form of a string to access later it in the code right now for storing the height
of the root left and right.
So everyone is having a height initially this is at the height zero, this is one, this is two.
And similarly these are growing.
So this is like simply storing the height of the left, right and the root initially.
Now, we will be covering the rest part in the next part of this project.